# EDA_Population_Property_from_2015_to_2022
Exploratory Data Analysis of Population and Property in the Netherlands

As an expat in the Netherlands, finding a decent economical place to live has been a challenge for me. Many say that it has to do with quite a few emigrants who have come to the Netherlands since 2015, however, many beleive that monopolization of the housing market is the root cause of abnormality of supply and demand. In order to have an unbiased and legit opinion regarding this matter-which indeed has made many displeased-I found two different datasets which can address this issue to some extent.  

The first dataset (Netherlands Population Growth Rate 1950-2023) was analyzed to investigate the population growth rate and its relationship with housing market. Another set of data (House Prices: new and existing dwellings price index 2015=100) was provided to look into the price changes over time as well as total number of sold propertis per annum. Having prepared the datasets through python data exploratory analysis, a relationship between population and properties was made for the sake of visulization. It is worth mentioning that the visualization was done by Power Bi, and it was tried to put everything in a very simple and clear manner for better clarification. The raw datsets were provided to this repository for your reference. The clean datsets were also added as "House" and "Population."

At the end, considering the Power Bi visualization - two sample images were uploaded as Bi1.PNG and Bi2.PNG - there is no relationship between the total number of the sold dwellings (as sales) and price, nevertheless the price has been experiencing a positive slope in the last few years. Therefore, the conception of the market monopolization needs to investigated from other angles other than market data. On the other hand, the population is an influencing factor on the house price index. In other words, the overall increasing population of the Netherlands is a determining factor of house price and maket supply (sold dwellings).

